# On *The Perks of Being a Wallflower*

{'Author': 'Thomas Adamo', 'Date': '9.10.17', 'Category': 'Review', 'Tags': ('Steven Chbosky',), "Issue": "Supplementary Issue 1"}

One of my friends, a fan of lesser well known films, recently
recommended this strange film from 2012, called *The Perks of Being a
Wallflower*. His only attempt to convince me to do so was summed up in
the phrase “It’s really good and has Emma Watson in it”. He had my
attention. But it was a vague memory of that title from somewhere that
held my interest. A little initial research about this film revealed
that it had been a book first, published in 1999, written by the author
Stephen Chbosky. My interest was piqued; film adaptations tend to be
based on good books (with the notable exception of *Twilight*). So I
found a copy from the library and started reading...

One is immediately struck by the way it was written. Instead of being a
narrative, the book is presented as a series of letters, to a person who
is never identified, stating that the person who he is writing to seems
kind and wouldn’t be judgmental. However, I felt, reading these personal
letters, that they were addressed to the reader. I was also struck by
the sheer sense of nostalgia for teenage years the author was able to
evoke.

Plot
----

The book starts off with our main character, Charlie, a high school
freshman, explaining why he is writing these letters believing that the
reader will not judge him. He begins by talking about his first year at
high school, while still in the grip of two traumatic experiences in his
past: the death of his favorite aunt, Helen, in a car crash when he was
young, and the tragic suicide of his middle school friend Michael, the
year before. He immediately takes a liking for English and his teacher,
who insists that Charlie call him Bill, takes notice of his proficiency
for the subject. Bill mentors him by setting him extra work and gives
him more books to read, which he enjoys greatly, including *The Catcher
in the Rye*. Despite being highly introverted, he is befriended by two
seniors, Sam and Patrick, Charlie quickly falls for Sam, and admits his
feelings for her, Sam rejects his offer kindly, saying that he is just
too young for her, but they remain good friends. Patrick, Sam’s
stepbrother, is found out to be secretly dating Brad, the closeted
football quarterback, who is very insistent on keeping their
relationship secret.

Charlie becomes more and more accepted in Sam and Patrick’s friend
group, and begins to experiment with drugs and alcohol. The high point
of their friendship is when all three of them ride in the pickup truck
through a tunnel, and Charlie states that he felt infinite. It is
revealed that Sam was sexually abused as a child, and kisses Charlie one
night to ensure that his first kiss is with someone he likes. At a party
on New Year’s Eve, Charlie trips on LSD and cannot control flashbacks of
his aunt Helen, and ends up in the hospital after passing out in the
snow. Charlie is asked to fill in for the main part in a regular
performance of *The Rocky Horror Picture Show* instead of Sam’s
boyfriend, Craig, This impresses one of their friends, Mary Elizabeth,
who then asks him to the school’s Sadie Hawkins dance. The two then
enter a half hearted relationship, which ends quickly, after a game of
truth and dare. Charlie is dared to kiss the prettiest girl in the room,
but instead of kissing Mary Elizabeth, he kisses Sam, saying to the
reader that he needed to be honest. Patrick suggests that he spend some
time away from the group, during which, his flashbacks of Aunt Helen
return.

Also during this time, Patrick and Brad’s relationship is discovered by
Brad’s abusive father, who pulls him out of school for a while. On
returning, Brad is cold and derogatory to Patrick, even publicly mocking
his sexuality in the middle of the dining hall. Patrick snaps, attacking
Brad, but is then outnumbered by five other football team members who
join him. Charlie rushes to his aid and breaks up the fight, which
improves the relationship between him and Sam, as he regains her
respect. Patrick starts spending more time with Charlie, and engages in
unhealthy behavior, including going to a park to “fool around” with
strangers, which Charlie does not try to stop. Eventually Patrick sees
Brad engaging with a stranger in the same park and is able to move on
from their relationship.

The school year winds to a close and Charlie is afraid to lose all of
his senior friends, especially Sam, who is leaving earlier than the
rest, and has just broken up with her boyfriend. In the emotional climax
of the book, the two talk about his feelings for her. Sam becomes angry
at Charlie for never acting on his feelings for her, saying that she
does not want to be someone’s crush, because that means they aren’t
being themselves around her, and are hiding something. She then
encourages him to act on the things he feels in all aspects of life,
telling him to “participate in life”, not just watch from the sidelines
as a wallflower. The two begin to engage sexually, but Charlie is
suddenly, inexplicably uncomfortable, and realizes that the contact is
bringing back repressed memories of him being sexually abused as a child
by his aunt Helen.

In the epilogue, Charlie is found in a catatonic state and is admitted
into a mental hospital to help deal with his PTSD. Patrick and Sam
visit, which helps his state and he soon comes to terms with his
troubled past “Even if we don’t have the power to choose where we come
from, we can still choose where we go from there”, and accepts that he
needs to participate in life. The book ends with Sam and Patrick driving
through the tunnel one last time, and Charlie states again that he feels
infinite.

Analysis
--------

The central theme of the book can be found in the title, as it suggests,
*The Perks of Being a Wallflower* is all about Charlie wrestling between
observing life, as a wallflower, and internalizing his emotions or to
taking part in it and sharing how he feels with others. At the start of
the school year, Charlie, we are told, feels like an outcast, knowing
hardly anyone and having lost one of his best friends, Michael. But
during this troubled times, two important events happen to him, which
enrich his life and help him feel special in a good way. Firstly his
English teacher takes note of him and sets him extra assignments and
reading, all the books he sets are coming of age stories, like *The
Perks of Being a Wallflower*, giving a clever nod to its predecessors.
This allows him to feel special intellectually. He also meets Sam and
Patrick, who take him under their wing, making him feel special
socially. Charlie ends up being surprisingly direct in his letters,
although he is not at all in his own life, and uses them to externalise
his emotions, rather than keep them to himself. For example, when he
witnesses his sister being hit by her boyfriend, he writes the letter
first, then a month later tells Bill, showing how he uses the letters to
verbalise how he feels, then acts on it. The entire novel deals with
this issue and Charlie’s growth revolves around how he has to come to
terms with the things he keeps hidden inside of him. When he relates the
fact that he witnessed a date rape to Patrick and Sam, years after it
happened, they encourage him to puncture the date rapist’s tires,
allowing him to feel rewarded and provides emotional release. However he
soon learns that some things are best kept to oneself, and uses the
letters to work through these, rather than directly acting on them. For
example, when he kisses Sam instead of Mary Elizabeth at the party.

The book ends in an optimistic tone, when, in the epilogue, all three of
them ride through the tunnel again. This acts as a powerful expression
of nostalgia for Charlie, as it reminds him of the things the friends
used to do before Sam and Patrick left. Then the city comes into view,
symbolizing how Charlie is ready to start participating in life,
completing his growth. The letters stop, showing how he is finally at
peace with his past and who he is.

Conclusion
----------

I would thoroughly recommend this book as it’s a really well developed
coming of age story, with a wide variety of themes including: passion vs
passivity, sex, drugs, loss and a real sense of nostalgia for the highs
and lows of teenage life. Seeing the world through Charlie’s eyes gives
the reader a good perspective on what it means to take part in life as
well as growing up. In the words of Chbosky himself, this book is “for
anyone who has ever felt like an outcast”, which, given its large cult
following, must be a lot of people.
