#Library News, Issue 32

{'Author': 'Joshua Loo', 'Date': '4.9.17', 'Category': 'Notes', 'Tags': ('The Library',), "Issue": 32}

Welcome to our first edition of The Librarian this year, and we hope you
enjoy it! The Librarian is The Library Committee’s monthly magazine,
which you can find by the water dispenser in the Library, or by the
entrance of the Library or up (most) houses (or wherever you got this
copy from).

The Library is the one of the oldest parts of the school, and as
libraries go, it’s a pretty impressive one. It is laced with history,
being around in one form or another for hundreds of years. In the halls
that we walk and work in, hundreds of years ago, librarians of the King
kept the hugely historically important and significant artefacts and
books that later formed made up British Library.

Even before the King’s Library, the very walls are steeped in history.
If you walk to the back of the Library, the Greene Room and the Browne
Room, or the vaulting ceilings of our 17th Century staircase tucked away
in a corner showcase its restoration-era heritage. We share our library
not just with each other, but with a rich architectural heritage and
huge historical gravitas.

We are part of that heritage too, in a way. Nowadays, the Library is the
hub of Westminster, and one with many different faces. For some, it’s a
study resource, laden with information, key writings and vital texts.
For others, it’s a quiet, productive space, with a studious atmosphere
very conducive to hard work and vital revision. For many more, it’s a
social space, where people can relax on a multitude of chairs and
beanbags in what is a communal area for the entire school.

The Library is a part of every student’s life, no matter which subjects
they take, which house they are in, which year they are in, and so it’s
a huge honour to lead the Library Committee, a body where students can
have their say in the running of the Library and where members can help
with all the vital work the librarians and the Library do, from charity
sales and helping students to sorting books.

It is hard to understate the role that the librarians do for us as
pupils, and it weighs on me every time I enter the Library how difficult
and vast a task it must be to look after the tens of thousands of books
the school has, to organise and sort them into such a huge and useful
tool for all students, and when one is in the Library Committee doing a
fraction of their jobs, one really understands how thankful we should
all be.

If you are new to the school, or if you haven’t really used the Library
much before, use the opportunity, because it’s an incredible privilege
to have such a historic, large, well-kept library and space, an
opportunity many can only dream of having. For those who are new to the
school, or reading this magazine for the first time, be sure to pick up
your copy every month, and if you want to contribute, get in contact
with Joshua Loo – and enjoy!

An Invitation to the Library Committee
--------------------------------------

The Library Committee is where pupils can get involved with the running
of the Library. This means suggesting changes, talking with other pupils
to find out what we could be doing better to make the Library more
useful and accessible as a resource and more enjoyable a space for
pupils not just of the upper years but throughout the school.

Members of the Library Committee also help as pupil librarians, setting
aside some time in their busy weeks to work at the front desk, putting
back books, helping pupils use the Library, and having what I find is a
very enjoyable, quiet and productive space of time whilst making
yourself very useful.

But the role of a pupil librarian, and the Library Committee, goes far
deeper than that. With the great privilege of enjoying one of the finest
and most historic libraries in Britain comes great responsibility to
give back, and so at the Library Committee we help the Librarians in
organising charity events and sales, the proceeds of which all go to
charity.

The Library Committee also maintains *The Librarian*, which is an
exciting and forward thinking publication, taking contributions from
both committee members and other members of the school community and
weaving it into a magazine with very wide scope and high standards. If
you have anything you’d like to contribute, email the editor at
joshua.loo@westminster.org.uk.

If you are interested in joining the Library Committee, email me at
jonny.heywood@westminster.org.uk, or just ask me in person, but
remember, the role of a pupil librarian is one which requires a good
deal of free time, a lot of patience, and obviously, a strong devotion
to the Library. I hope to see some new faces soon!

Jonny Heywood, Chair

Using the library
-----------------

The library may seem a daunting place at first. However, it is not
actually very difficult to use. Books can be located at
<https://oliver.westminster.org.uk> - use your Westminster login. If we
do not have a book, you may suggest a book to the librarians by filling
in a short form available in the library. Alternatively, speak to a
librarian yourself. The librarians are always open to suggestions and
very often accept them.

To find a book, first find its identifier on the Oliver search page. The
first part of the identifier will be a number, eg. “192”. In the front
room of the library on the right of the doorframe to the left, there is
a small sign which tells you which room the number will be in, and where
the room is. The second part of the identifier is useful once you have
found the room. It may simply be the first part of an author, eg. “MIL”,
or it may be another number. In any case, bookcases will have signage
indicating which books are contained beneath them. They may indicate a
range of numbers, or a range of letters.

The library has a number of other resources which are available on the
library’s Firefly page - <http://firefly.westminster.org.uk/library> or
Firefly &gt; Resources &gt; Departments &gt; Library. Online resources
are contained on the eResources page. Particularly useful ones include
JSTOR (good for sixth form especially), Naxos Music Library and the
access to the archives and present articles of a nubmer of periodicals.
The library itself receives many periodicals from across the world very
frequently.
