# Library News, Issue 31

{'Author': 'Joshua Loo', 'Date': '27.6.17', 'Category': 'Notes', 'Tags': ('The Library',)}

**Compiled by Jonny Heywood, Chairperson, and edited by Joshua Loo**

Bookbinding comes to the Library
--------------------------------

This month the school bookbinders set up their annual bookbinding
exhibition up Library which is still on display in the Brock Room.
Featuring dozens of items, from novels and notebooks to delicately
decorated symbols and letters, the display celebrates the highlights of
a year’s diligent binding in Weston’s basement as well as introducing
passers-by in the library to what one binder called the ‘art of the
bind’. Highlights include Dominic Brind’s binding of a book on Charles V
with a “golden fleece”, Captain Emeritus of Debating, Senior Binder
Alfred Murray’s binding of Vita Nuova with ethereal angels on a navy
leather backdrop, and the Dean’s Presentation Binding, in the style of
formal abbey dress, the first of Westminster’s unique “cassock
bindings”, also Alfred Murray’s work.

On one visit, Alfred was there totting up numbers of books bound by each
house (as I left it, Dryden’s led Purcell’s, then College), calculating
who would win the annual ‘House Bookbinding Competition’, the winner
being the house which has bound the most books since the start of the
year. Alfred is the Head Bookbinder, and has an imposing collection of
books on display numbering more than any other student, representing an
impressive juggling act with A-Levels.

Benedict Randall Shaw, long-time contributor to the Librarian, and avid
bookbinder, when asked about bookbinding, replied that “It’s a very
complex process. To put it simply, one first splits the book into its
composite sections, before sewing them onto cords or tape, and often
rounding them for aesthetic purposes. One then sews a ’headband’ on, and
puts boards on the ends of the book, which one finishes with leather
and/or decorated paper.” Bookbinding is a fine art indeed. “The
camaraderie of the bookbinding room alone makes it a worthwhile hobby –
it’s a great atmosphere”. This is a great exhibition too – well worth
spending 10 minutes looking at.

Refugee Week in the Library
---------------------------

Last week the school celebrated refugee week, and the Library celebrated
it in its own way. The Librarians set up a new display in the Lobby,
featuring many eye-opening reads. The Good Immigrant, at the centre of
the display, is a superb book satirising our impressions of what an
immigrant should be, even more relevant in an age of anti-immigrant
backlash. The display is an excellent collection of eye-opening books
from very different perspectives, which would fit very well in any
Summer reading list.

Also in the Library this week, the new book of the week on display is
Reni Eddo-Lodge’s ‘Why I’m no longer talking to white people about
race’, a much-anticipated book after Eddo-Lodge’s original blog post of
the same name. The book deals with very profound and complex issues
about intersectionality, the nature of black feminism, and an
ideological struggle over the identity of feminism. Even if one weren’t
to read it, the Guardian Podcast with Eddo-Lodge herself about the book
and the question of identity is an excellent listen.

Library goes silent
-------------------

For those of our avid readers who weren’t already aware, all rooms right
of the lobby, including the Brock Room, Drawing Room, Christie Room and
Periodicals Room, are silent areas until the end of term, to help those
in exams with revision and focus.
